<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference-4707" class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
  <title class="- topic/title ">How to get your Film Developed</title>
  <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">There's already so much information available on getting film developed, but here's some practical advice</shortdesc>
  <refbody class="- topic/body       reference/refbody ">
    <section id="section-4708" class="- topic/section ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">You have these options:</title>
      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
        <li class="- topic/li ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">At a pharmacy</b>
            - Walgreens, CVS, Rite Aid, and most other pharmacies still offer film developing services. The turnaround time is usually a few days. Make sure to ask about expedited services if you need the prints sooner. Many pharmacies can scan your negatives to digital as well.
          </p>
        </li>
        <li class="- topic/li ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">At a professional photo lab</b>
            - Professional photo labs often provide higher quality prints and can handle specialty films. They offer a wider range of finishes and paper types. This option is more expensive but produces superior results.
          </p>
        </li>
        <li class="- topic/li ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Online services</b>
            - You can mail your film to online developing services like The Darkroom, Indie Film Lab, or Richard Photo Lab. They typically take 1-2 weeks for processing. These services often provide excellent quality and competitive pricing.
          </p>
        </li>
        <li class="- topic/li ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">DIY (Do It Yourself)</b>
            - If you're adventurous, you can develop film at home using a film development kit. This requires a darkroom or changing bag, chemistry, and proper equipment. Check online guides and communities for detailed instructions.
          </p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="section-4709" class="- topic/section ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">Tips for getting the best results:</title>
      <ul class="- topic/ul ">
        <li class="- topic/li ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">Store your film in a cool, dark place before developing to preserve quality</p>
        </li>
        <li class="- topic/li ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">Keep your negatives in protective sleeves after development</p>
        </li>
        <li class="- topic/li ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">Request digital scans if you plan to share your photos online</p>
        </li>
        <li class="- topic/li ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">Ask about color correction options for optimal print quality</p>
        </li>
        <li class="- topic/li ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">Consider archival-quality prints if you want your photos to last decades</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>