<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task-5650" class="- topic/topic task/task ">
  <title class="- topic/title ">How to Hold your Camera</title>
  <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "/>
  <taskbody class="- topic/body task/taskbody ">
    <context class="- topic/section task/context ">
      <p class="- topic/p ">Before you begin taking photos with your camera, it is important to know the correct way to hold your camera. Holding your camera correctly will help you take sharp, well-composed photographs and also protect your camera from accidental damage.</p>
    </context>
    <steps class="- topic/ol task/steps ">
      <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
        <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Use both hands to hold the camera steady.</cmd>
        <info class="- topic/itemgroup task/info ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">Place your right hand on the grip at the back of the camera, with your index finger on the shutter button. Place your left hand under the camera body, supporting the lens.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
        <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Position your elbows close to your body.</cmd>
        <info class="- topic/itemgroup task/info ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">Keep your elbows tucked in to stabilize the camera and reduce camera shake when you press the shutter button.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
        <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Tuck your chin down toward your shoulder.</cmd>
        <info class="- topic/itemgroup task/info ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">This helps you look through the viewfinder comfortably and keeps your head stable while you take the photo.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
        <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Spread your feet about shoulder-width apart.</cmd>
        <info class="- topic/itemgroup task/info ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">This creates a stable base and helps you maintain proper balance while taking photos.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
        <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Hold the camera steady and take the photo.</cmd>
        <info class="- topic/itemgroup task/info ">
          <p class="- topic/p ">Keep the camera level and press the shutter button gently to avoid sudden movement. Do not jab or punch the button.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result class="- topic/section task/result ">
      <p class="- topic/p ">When you hold your camera properly using both hands and a stable stance, you will be able to take sharp, well-composed photographs.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
